StereoSketcher is a stereoscopic image drawing tool designed to be fun and accesible.

The interface is just a giant canvas. Click once on the canvas to add a dot. Click someplace else to add another dot. Click and drag to create the selectangle and release to select the dots inside it. Pressing D when two dots are selected will create a line between the dots. You can also select a dot by clicking on it. You can continually select more dots by holding shift when clicking or using the selectangle. Clicking and dragging inside a selected dot will move all the selected dots along with the lines connected to them. You can click on lines to select them, and pressing delete when lines or dots are selected will remove them. Once a suitable wireframe is constructed, you can begin to add the stereoscopic depth. The A and S keys are used to add the depth. Select the dots you want to add depth to and press S to move them out of the screen, or A to move them into the screen. The labels on the dots show you the relative depth of each one. Once you have suitable depth for the dots, press spacebar to hide the dots and view the picture clearly. Pressing 1, 2, and 3 will switch you between the 3 view modes. 1 is cross eye viewing, 2 is parallel eye viewing, and 3 is red/cyan viewing. Using these techniques to view the drawings is covered in my other tutorials, links in the description. When using cross and parallel viewing, use C and V to change the distance between the two images to make it easier to view.

You can also add faces to your polygons by selecting 3 dots and pressing f. You can set the color of both the faces and lines by selecting them, choosing a color from the color picker, and clicking the "Set selected" button. When you're working with faces, shapes can pile up and overlap each other. Sort out overlaps using Q, W, E, and R. Press R when a face or line is selected to move it to the top of the stack, and press Q to move it to the bottom of the stack. E and W move the selected shape up and down one layer in the stack, respectively. 

As your drawing becomes more complex, there are some advanced techniques you can use. Zooming in and out can be done using your mouse's scroll wheel, and panning around the drawing can be done by clicking and dragging with the right mouse button. You can make selected lines thinner and thicker using Z and X. When the drawing gets crowded, you can double click a dot to select all the dots that are connected to that dot through a line or face. Double clicking on a face or a line will select the dots that that face or line is based on.

When you're done, you can take a screenshot, or upload the image to imgur directly by clicking the "Upload to imgur" button. Click the "Help" link for a chart of all the key functions and links to stereoscopic image viewing tutorials. Thanks for visiting. Have fun.

